Welcome back.
In a previous video we saw how to use the SUM function which iterates through an array and runs a callback
on each value in the array.
The callback function returns true for any of the values.
The entire function returns true.
Now let's examine a similar function called every Just like sum every will iterate through an array
and run a callback function for each value in the array.
However if the callback function returns false for any single value the entire every function returns
false.
The idea here is that in order for every to return true every single value we iterate over has to return
true to the callback function.
Just like filter and sum the result of the callback function will always be evaluated as a boolean.
Let's see a couple examples.
Here we have a variable called R but the values 1 2 and 3.
Let's invoke the every function on that array and pass a callback to it inside of the callback function.
We have access to each value index an array that we're iterating over.
Just like with all the other array methods we've seen so far.
Now inside of this callback or returning an expression to see if the value we are at is less than zero.
Since every value in this array is less than zero the entire every function will return true.
What would happen if we wanted to see if every value is greater than 2.
In our case that is not true.
So the every function will return false.
You can think of the every function like a more strict version of some.
So how does it work.
I think you know where I'm going with this.
Let's remember how every works.
It iterates through an array runs a callback function on each value in the array and if the callback
function returns False for a single value the entire every function returns false otherwise it returns
true.
Pause the video if you'd like to try to implement your own every function.
All right let's make a function called every which accepts an array and a callback function will start
with a for loop and initialize a variable.
I add 0 will loop as long as I'm less than the length of the array and will increment by one after each
iteration inside of the for loop.
We want to see if the result of the callback function with the Value Index and array passed to it is
false.
If it is let's return false and exit the function and loop once we're done looping if we have not return
false at any time that means that every value has returned true from the callback function.
In our every function will return true.
Now let's see how we can use every in our own functions.
Here we have a function called all lowercase which checks to see if every character in the string is
lowercase.
We'll split the string into an array and call every on it and then see if each character is the same
as that character.
To lower case if all of them are we will return true.
Let's take a look at another function called all arrays.
This is actually a question that we asked in the rhythms call interview.
Here we have a function that accepts an array and we want to see if each value in the array is an array.
We can combine Every with the array that is array function to really clean this code up instead of passing
our own callback function to every we use the built in.
Our radar is array method to see if each value is an array.
Before we move on to the final array method we're going to look at.
Let's practice a bit more with some and every good luck and I'll see you in the next video.